NEED FOR SPEED (2015) - COMPLETE APP, REBUILT WINE - OPEN THIS FIRST

Newest (the Rosetta workaround is ON by default):
  Need for Speed Bundled 20261008-2f65bd4-0009.app    (the complete app: game and EA app inside)
  Need for Speed Import 20261008-2f65bd4-0009.app     (no game, no EA app: uses your own Windows folder)
Earlier, still here: the "-0008" apps (dcf3a4d) and the "-0007" apps (5864653).

WHAT IS DIFFERENT IN THE "-0009" APPS (added 2026-10-08)
They are the "-0008" apps with:
 1. A Wine runtime with one more patch (0009); only one Wine file differs (ntdll.so). It fixes what your tests of "-0008" found:
    - With all four switches on, EA's own browser process died of an unexpected single-step exception: the workaround left the CPU's
      single-step flag set. Fixed (also for threads that Wine suspends and reads).
    - With only the workaround on, the game still crashed at 0x1B30159 because the workaround gave up on the very page it was meant to
      guard (a limit of 300 stores in 100 milliseconds released it while it was only being filled). The limit is now 4096 stores per
      second, and a store across two pages now works.
    It has NOT been tried in the game since, and a page written thousands of times a second is still released again.
 2. The workaround is now ON by default, as you asked: a new or reset installation starts with it on, and nothing needs to be saved.
    Settings > "Wine: Rosetta workaround and experiments": the first toggle, "Rosetta 2 self-modifying-code workaround, on by default
    (WINE_RWX_WX_EMULATION=1)", turns it off (then press "Save"; the next Play uses that; an "off" you saved stays off). The text there says it
    is a workaround for a bug in Rosetta 2 and can be turned off if the game or the EA app misbehaves.
 3. The other three toggles (two page re-toggles and the page trace) stay OFF and are marked "Experiment, not needed" or "only records".
 4. Every crash report has the section "RWX W^X emulation", and the line "wine experiment switches:" says whether the workaround was the
    default, saved, or overridden, or off. The session log (Open Log) gets "RWX W^X emulation: ..." at the end of a Play.
Defaults: MetalFX off, x87 sidecar off, the workaround ON, the three experiments off. Same app identity and same folder as the earlier apps,
so a Windows folder an earlier app made is reused, and an experiments choice saved by "-0008" is kept (a saved "off" stays off; if you saved
the three experiments, press "Reset" to go back to the defaults).
NOT checked: that the game now runs (that is the test below), what the workaround costs in the game, that the EA app is fine with it for
longer than a first start, a 32-bit program (the workaround is for 64-bit programs only). The EA app's update-restart problem is not fixed.

THE TEST FOR THE "-0009" APPS (several launches; quit the app and the EA app between runs)
 (F) MetalFX ON at 1.33 or 1.5 (Settings > MetalFX group: switch on, choose the factor, press "Save MetalFX"), everything else as shipped:
     press Play with the workaround ON (the default; "Reset" in the experiments group makes sure). Play until it crashes or for the same
     time each run, at least five runs. Then, for comparison, the same with the workaround turned OFF and saved.
 What to send back, per run: the crash report if there was a crash (Play tab > "Reveal in Finder"; folder
 ~/Library/Application Support/NFS2015Mac/Logs), and from the newest session-*.log the lines "wine-rwx:" and "RWX W^X emulation:". Say
 whether the game ran normally and for how long, and whether the EA app window behaved. The "wine-rwx: pid=... stores=..." line is printed when
 a Wine process EXITS; after a crash there may be none for the crashed process.
 Developer path: NFS2015_AB_WINE_RWX_WX_EMULATION=0 (or 1) and, only for a developer, NFS2015_AB_WINE_RWX_WX_HOT_LIMIT=<n> (0 = never release)
 in front of the session helper command (docs/NFS2015.md section 20.5).

WHAT WAS CHECKED ON THE "-0009" BUILD (on the Mac that built it)
Checked: the code signature (valid, Developer ID, NOT notarized, so macOS will say it cannot verify it); every game file, the EA app's files,
Wine Mono, the Wine runtime and the licence texts against their pinned hashes inside the finished app; that no EA account, session or machine
file and no D3DMetal files are inside; the Swift tests (920), the build with warnings as errors and 19 packaging checks; a clean-room first
start of the Bundled app (fresh private folder, no network, app copied to another path, the game and the owner's own folders unreadable): it
finished and everything was in place byte for byte (47 checks passed); and that a fresh first start has the workaround ON without anything
saved (Wine's own processes printed "wine-rwx:" lines). NOT checked live: a saved "off" and the developer override 0 (unit tests only), anything
with the game itself, the "RWX W^X emulation" summary line (it needs a Play), the Settings page on screen, a second Mac, EA sign-in, activation,
Gatekeeper, the Import app in a Windows folder of your own.

WHAT WAS DIFFERENT IN THE "-0008" APPS (added 2026-10-08; kept as it was: where it says the workaround is OFF by default, the "-0009" apps differ, they have it ON)
They are the "-0007" apps with:
 1. A Wine runtime with one more patch (0008); only one Wine file differs (ntdll.so). Why: the crash at 0x1B30159 turned out to be a
    defect of Rosetta 2 itself, reproduced in a small program with and without Wine: the game's protection code builds an instruction
    with two stores right ahead of itself, and Rosetta then resumes one byte late and executes garbage. The patch can work around that:
    with the new switch on, Wine keeps the game's read-write-execute pages non-writable and lets each store through one instruction at
    a time, so Rosetta looks at the page again between the stores. In the test program it removed the crash in every round. It has NOT
    been tried in the game, and it makes every store to such a page slower (about 60 microseconds); a page written very often is
    released again after 300 stores in 100 milliseconds.
 2. A fourth toggle in Settings > "Wine experiments": "Rosetta self-modifying-code workaround, experimental
    (WINE_RWX_WX_EMULATION=1)". OFF by default; same Save / Play rules as the other three (quit a running EA app first).
 3. The crash report has a section "RWX W^X emulation" with the counters Wine printed, and the session log (Open Log) gets a line
    "RWX W^X emulation: ..." at the end of a Play when the switch was on, whether or not the game crashed. The report's line
    "wine experiment switches:" lists the switch.
Defaults did not change: MetalFX off, x87 sidecar off, all experiments off. Same app identity and same folder as the earlier apps.
NOT checked: that the workaround helps in the game, what it costs there, whether the game keeps running with it for longer than a few
minutes, a 32-bit program (the workaround is for 64-bit programs only). The EA app's update-restart problem is not fixed.

THE TEST FOR THE "-0008" APPS (several launches; quit the app and the EA app between runs)
 (E) MetalFX ON at 1.33 or 1.5, the new workaround ON, the page trace OFF:
     Settings > MetalFX group: switch on, choose 1.5 (or 1.33), press "Save MetalFX".
     Settings > "Wine experiments" group: press "Reset" first (all four off), then switch on ONLY the toggle
     "Rosetta self-modifying-code workaround, experimental (WINE_RWX_WX_EMULATION=1)" and press "Save".
     Quit the EA app if it is running, press Play, play until it crashes or for the same time each run. Repeat at least five times.
     Optionally repeat with the page trace toggle (WINE_TRACE_PAGE=1B30000-1B31000) also on, to see what the game does with the page.
 For comparison (the baseline that crashed before): the same with the workaround toggle OFF.
 What to send back, per run: the crash report (the Play tab shows it with "Reveal in Finder"; folder
 ~/Library/Application Support/NFS2015Mac/Logs) if there was a crash, and from the session log (Open Log, or the newest
 session-*.log in that folder) the lines that start with "wine-rwx:" and the line "RWX W^X emulation:". Also say whether the game
 ran normally, and how long. The "wine-rwx: pid=... stores=..." line is printed when a Wine process EXITS: after a crash
 there may be none for the crashed process. Developer path: NFS2015_AB_WINE_RWX_WX_EMULATION=1 (or 0) and, only for a developer,
 NFS2015_AB_WINE_RWX_WX_HOT_LIMIT=<n> (0 = never release) in front of the session helper command (docs/NFS2015.md section 20.5).
 To turn everything off again: "Reset" in the Wine experiments group.

WHAT WAS CHECKED ON THE "-0008" BUILD (on the Mac that built it; kept as it was)
Checked: the code signature (valid, Developer ID, NOT notarized, so macOS will say it cannot verify it); every game file, the EA app's
files, Wine Mono, the Wine runtime and the licence texts against their pinned hashes inside the finished app; that no EA account,
session or machine file and no D3DMetal files are inside; the Swift tests (917), the build with warnings as errors and 19 packaging
checks; a clean-room first start of the Bundled app (fresh private folder, no network, app copied to another path, the game and the
owner's own folders unreadable): it finished and everything was in place byte for byte (47 checks passed); and that the new switch
reaches Wine through the app: with it saved on, Wine's own processes printed "wine-rwx:" lines in the first start, with nothing saved
they printed none. NOT checked: anything with the game itself (whether it then runs and for how long, the cost), the "RWX W^X emulation"
summary line at the end of a Play (it needs a Play), the Settings page on screen, a second Mac, EA sign-in, activation, Gatekeeper,
the Import app in a Windows folder of your own.

WHAT WAS DIFFERENT IN THE "-0007" APPS (added 2026-10-08; the page trace and two re-toggle experiments)
Need for Speed Bundled 20261008-5864653-0007.app and Need for Speed Import 20261008-5864653-0007.app are the "-0005" apps with:
 1. A Wine runtime with two more patches. 0006 makes the "wine-crash:" block much fuller: the memory state of the crashing page and
    its neighbours, a checksum of that page, the thread count, return addresses, and 512 bytes of code around the crashing
    instruction. 0007 adds three EXPERIMENT SWITCHES, all OFF unless you turn them on (below), and a trace of memory calls.
    Three Wine files differ from "-0005" (both kernelbase.dll and ntdll.so); the rest is the same.
 2. The crash report (Logs/crash-report-*.txt) shows the fuller block ("Crash context") and, when you switched the trace on, a
    "Page trace" section: the last 200 memory calls on the traced page before the crash, as numbers. It also lists which
    experiment switches were set ("wine experiment switches: ...").
 3. A "Wine experiments" group in Settings (three switches, off by default; Save, Discard, Reset) and, in the MetalFX group,
    the words "experimental, known to crash NFS16": with MetalFX on, the game faulted at the same place (0x1B30159) in 2 of 2 launches
    that got as far as a display-mode change, on two Macs, and in none of 17 launches with it off. Why is not known.
Defaults did not change: MetalFX off, x87 sidecar off, all experiments off. Same app identity and same folder as the earlier apps.
NOT checked: that any switch changes anything in the game (the guess behind them, that Rosetta runs a stale copy of a code page the
game rewrote, could not be reproduced with a small test program), the full block and the trace from the game itself, a 32-bit program.
The EA app's update-restart problem is not fixed.

HOW TO RUN THE FOUR VARIANTS (quit the app and the EA app between runs; each Save applies at the next Play)
Where: Settings tab. MetalFX group = "MetalFX"; experiments group = "Wine experiments (for finding the NFS16 crash)".
 (i) Baseline, MetalFX ON, no experiment: MetalFX group: switch on, factor 1.5, press "Save MetalFX". Wine experiments group: press
     "Reset" (all three off). Quit the EA app if it is running, press Play, play until it crashes or for the same time each run.
 (ii) FLUSH: as (i), and in Wine experiments switch on the FIRST toggle (WINE_ROSETTA_FLUSH_TOGGLE=1), press "Save", then Play.
 (iii) PROTECT: as (i), and switch on the SECOND toggle (WINE_ROSETTA_PROTECT_TOGGLE=1), press "Save", then Play.
 (iv) BOTH: as (i), and switch on the first and the second toggle, press "Save", then Play.
 Trace (add to any of the four): also switch on the THIRD toggle (WINE_TRACE_PAGE=1B30000-1B31000), press "Save", then Play.
 After a crash: the Play tab shows the crash report with "Reveal in Finder" (folder ~/Library/Application Support/NFS2015Mac/Logs).
 The report's line "wine experiment switches:" says which variant it was. Send the report for each run. Run each variant several
 times: one run per variant says nothing. To turn everything off again: "Reset" in both groups.
 For a developer without the Settings page: set NFS2015_AB_WINE_ROSETTA_FLUSH_TOGGLE=1, NFS2015_AB_WINE_ROSETTA_PROTECT_TOGGLE=1
 and NFS2015_AB_WINE_TRACE_PAGE=1B30000-1B31000 (or "off") in front of the session helper command (docs/NFS2015.md section 20.5).

WHAT WAS CHECKED ON THE "-0007" BUILD (on the Mac that built it)
Checked: the code signature (valid, Developer ID, NOT notarized, so macOS will say it cannot verify it); every game file, the EA app's
files, Wine Mono, the Wine runtime and the licence texts against their pinned hashes inside the finished app; that no EA account,
session or machine file and no D3DMetal files are inside; the Swift tests (897), the build with warnings as errors and 19 packaging
checks; a clean-room first start of the Bundled app (fresh private folder, no network, app copied to another path, the game and the
owner's own folders unreadable): it finished and everything was in place byte for byte (47 checks passed); and that the experiment
switches reach Wine through the app: with the third toggle saved on, Wine's processes printed "wine-trace:" lines in the first start,
and with nothing saved they printed none (a control). NOT checked: anything with the game itself (whether a switch changes the crash,
what the fuller block or the trace show), the Settings page on screen, a second Mac, EA sign-in, activation, Gatekeeper, the Import app
in a Windows folder of your own.

WHAT IS DIFFERENT IN THE "-0005" APPS (added 2026-10-08, they sit next to the "-rebuilt" ones)
Need for Speed Bundled 20261008-8b9bcba-0005.app and Need for Speed Import 20261008-8b9bcba-0005.app are the "-rebuilt" apps
with exactly two changes, and nothing else:
 1. The Wine runtime has one more patch (0005). When a Windows program dies of an unhandled exception, Wine now also prints a
    short block of lines starting "wine-crash:" (the CPU registers, the bytes at the crashing instruction, what Wine knows about
    the crashing address, some stack words). Only two Wine files differ (the two kernelbase.dll); all other runtime files are the same.
 2. The app's crash report (Logs/crash-report-*.txt) reads that block and adds a section "Crash context (wine-crash block)". A crash
    report from a log without the block is unchanged. The block holds no names, paths or account data.
Defaults did not change: MetalFX is off, the x87 sidecar is off, the EA app inside is still 13.805.2.6319. The "-0005" apps use the
same app identity and the same folder ~/Library/Application Support/NFS2015Mac as the "-rebuilt" apps, so a Windows folder that an
earlier app made is reused, with whatever EA app it has since updated itself to. NOT checked: that the block appears for the game's
own crash (it was produced by a small test program only), that the 32-bit form of the block appears for a 32-bit program, and
anything in the game. The EA app's update-restart problem seen on the second Mac is not fixed here.

WHAT IT IS
A Mac app that runs Need for Speed (2015) through Wine. It carries your own licensed game files and EA's own
EA app, exactly as EA's installer installs it, so you do not download EA's installer or run an install step.
It carries NO EA account, no saved sign-in, no activation record and no save: you sign in with your own EA
account, in EA's own window, and EA decides whether you may play.
It is for your personal use on your own Macs. Do not share, upload or redistribute it. The Bundled app contains your
licensed copy of the game and EA's client; it is not a distributable product.
The Wine runtime inside was REBUILT from source on 2026-10-08. It is not byte for byte the runtime of the earlier apps
(two of its five pinned files match, three differ), and the EA app inside is a newer version than the earlier apps
had (13.805.2.6319, from EA's installer of 2026-10-07). Neither has been tried with the game or with an EA sign-in.

WHAT YOU NEED
- An Apple silicon Mac (M1 or later) with macOS 15 or later.
- Rosetta 2 (the app has an "Install Rosetta..." button; it needs the internet once).
- About 40 GB of free disk space while the app prepares itself the first time (the app is about 16 GB; its
  own Windows folder, the EA app and EA's downloads come on top; if the app is on another disk than your
  Library folder, the first start copies the game, which needs about 16 GB more).
- Your own EA account that owns Need for Speed (2015), and the internet for the sign-in and EA's one-time
  activation. The first start itself needs no internet.

STEP 1 - LET macOS OPEN THE APP (ONCE, ONLY IF macOS BLOCKS IT)
The app is signed by its developer but NOT notarized by Apple (the owner decided against it). When an app
reaches your Mac by AirDrop, a download, mail, a USB stick or an unzipped archive, macOS marks it as
"quarantined" and refuses to open an app Apple has not checked: "Apple could not verify ... is free of
malware". The mark is only a note that the file came from outside; it does not say the file is bad or good.
Open the app only if you trust where this copy came from. Then do ONE of these:

  A. Try to open the app once. Then open System Settings > Privacy & Security, scroll to "Security", and
     press "Open Anyway" next to this app's name. (On macOS 15 and later, Control-click > Open no longer
     works for an app that is not notarized.)

  B. Remove the mark yourself. Open Terminal, type this and a space, but do not press Return yet:
         xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine
     Drag the app from Finder into the Terminal window (it types the path for you) and press Return.
     That is the same as:  xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine "/path/to/the app.app"

A copy that never left this Mac, or that came on a drive that does not set the mark, opens without this step.
Moving the app to your Applications folder (or removing the mark) also makes the first start faster: while the
mark is on, macOS runs the app from a temporary read-only copy and the first start must copy all of the game.

STEP 2 - OPEN THE APP AND WAIT
The first start takes a few minutes, once. The app builds its own private Windows folder in
~/Library/Application Support/NFS2015Mac, installs the EA app that came with it, and copies and checks the
game files. A progress bar shows the game files. Nothing is sent anywhere.

STEP 3 - SIGN IN
Press "Open EA App". EA's own window opens; sign in with your own EA account, then quit the EA app.
This app never sees, stores or copies your sign-in.

STEP 4 - PLAY
Press "Play". Expect two prompts that do not come from this app:
- EA may ask you to activate the game on this Mac, once (EA sees a Mac it has not seen).
- macOS asks whether the app may use the microphone. It can already ask on the first launch, when the EA app or the
  game first looks for an audio input (the game has voice chat). The app never records; answer as you prefer.

THE IMPORT APP
The Import app carries no game and no EA app. It runs the game in a Windows folder (a Wine prefix) that you choose and that
already holds EA's app, signed in, and Need for Speed (2015). It does not build its own folder and does not install
anything of EA's. It has the same Settings page, including the sidecar and MetalFX groups, and the same Gatekeeper step.

THE SETTINGS PAGE
The "Settings" page in the left list changes a reviewed set of the game's own video, audio and control options (a
33-option catalog), and nothing else. It works only after the game has written its options file: start the game once
and quit it. It refuses to save while the game is running, or when the file changed since the page read it, or when
the file does not have the layout the app knows. Before the first change it keeps the file exactly as the game wrote
it, and before every later save the file as it was; "Restore Game Defaults" and "Undo Last Save" put either back.
"Maximum Quality" only chooses values, and nothing is written until you press Save Settings.

THE X87 SIDECAR (OFF BY DEFAULT, EXPERIMENTAL)
The Settings page has an "x87 sidecar (experimental)" group. The sidecar is a helper that handles old x87 floating-point
instructions of 32-bit Windows programs. This game is 64-bit and uses little of that, so this app starts WITHOUT the
sidecar. That is a judgement from how the game is built, NOT a measurement: nobody has compared this game with the
sidecar on and off, and the choice may be wrong in either direction. To compare, switch the group's toggle on, press
Save, quit the EA app if it is running, and press Play. The setting covers the whole Windows session (the EA app too),
and an EA app that is already running keeps the setting it was started with. If the EA app or EA's one-time activation
prompt misbehaves, try the toggle on. "Reset" returns to off.

METALFX UPSCALING (OFF BY DEFAULT; EXPERIMENTAL, KNOWN TO CRASH NFS16)
The Settings page has a MetalFX group, labelled "experimental, known to crash NFS16". It is off, and while it is off the app changes
nothing. With it on, the game faulted at the same place in every launch that got as far as a display-mode change (2 launches, 2 Macs,
2026-10-07 and 2026-10-08), and it did not in 17 launches with it off; why is not known, and the factor is not known to matter. Leave
it off to play; turn it on only to help find the cause (see the variants above). When you switch it on and choose a factor (1.25 to
2.0) and press Save MetalFX, Apple's MetalFX enlarges the game's finished picture by that factor, for the game's program only, not for
the EA app. Caveat: this app runs the game with Retina mode, so the game's picture is already at your screen's pixel size. With the
game at that size a factor above 1 only gives the GPU more work and adds no detail; it can only pay off when the game itself is set to
a resolution below your screen's. The page shows the sizes. "Reset MetalFX" turns it off again. Whether it looks or runs better in the
game is not known.

IF SOMETHING IS WRONG
- "Open Log" in the app shows what the helper did.
- "Reinstall EA App..." exists only for a newer EA app than the one that came with this app (it needs the
  installer from ea.com).
- To start over, quit the app and move ~/Library/Application Support/NFS2015Mac to the Trash. That removes the
  Windows folder, the EA app's state, your EA sign-in on this Mac and the game's settings and saves.
- If the EA app's window does not appear after "Open EA App": this has been seen in some sessions (Wine's windows were
  created but not on screen). It is a known, unsolved issue; docs/NFS2015.md section 15.6 gives the workaround that
  worked when the EA app was started by hand.
- Not supported: Intel Macs, macOS 14 or earlier, a Mac without Rosetta.

WHAT WAS AND WAS NOT TESTED
The checks made on the Mac that built the app, and what was not checked, are in the text file delivered beside the app
and in docs/NFS2015.md section 23 of the app's source archive at a later commit. In short, nothing was run with the
game or with an EA sign-in: not a second Mac, macOS 15, Gatekeeper and the quarantine steps above, EA's sign-in, the
activation prompt, playing the game, changing a setting in the game, the visual effect of MetalFX, what the x87 sidecar
setting does to speed or stability, the microphone prompt, or EA's own self-update. The rebuilt Wine and the newer EA
app have not been run with the game. docs/NFS2015.md sections 15 to 23 inside the app's source archive say what was
checked and how.
